# E.-Latimer-Portfolio
This is my public portfolio for the Telling Stories with Data course with the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon.

# About Me
My name is Erin Latimer and I'm a student in the MPM Program through Heinz College. My pronouns are she/her/hers. I'm completing the program part-time while I work full-time on campus in the Office of Admission. I'm on the long-term track in the program, as I'll be having my first child in October, but I'm planning to graduate in under 5 years!

# What I hope to learn...
I'm looking forward to using what I learn in this class to better depict visuals required for my role, and to use them as support when proposing changes within the office. There isn't a specific type of visual I'm looking to learn about, rather I'm interested in presenting information in a different way, which could potentially be influential in enforcing a new idea. My office is a data-driven office, which really motivated me in choosing this course specifically.

# Portfolio
## Data Viz Critique #1: The Economist
<iframe title="Social Media Popularity" aria-label="Bar Chart" id="datawrapper-chart-88t9I" src="//datawrapper.dwcdn.net/88t9I/1/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="245"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}})}();</script>
I chose to focus most heavily on Corbyn by graying out the opposition, and highlighting only his likes. I also changed the title to more closely align with what was being represented. I was unable to italicize and add a key to describe the political parties vs. the candidates, and I would have explained that more thoroughly if possible. I'm glad that this representation more clearly depicts the vast difference in likes between Corbyn and the other parties, as it's important to note. I wasn't sure if we could delete information here, because I probably would have deleted the political parties to only focus on the candidates specifically.

## Data Viz Critique #2


## Data Viz #1: OIG Data Visualization
### Role of Data Journalist
<div class="infogram-embed" data-id="351c5286-5175-4379-913e-0298b4baf3ac" data-type="interactive" data-title="OIG&amp;#39;s report to DHS"></div><script>!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script")[0],d=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=d+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var r=e.createElement("script");r.async=1,r.id=s,r.src=i,o.parentNode.insertBefore(r,o)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","https://e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");</script><div style="padding:8px 0;font-family:Arial!important;font-size:13px!important;line-height:15px!important;text-align:center;border-top:1px solid #dadada;margin:0 30px"><a href="https://infogram.com/351c5286-5175-4379-913e-0298b4baf3ac" style="color:#989898!important;text-decoration:none!important;" target="_blank">OIG's report to DHS</a><br><a href="https://infogram.com" style="color:#989898!important;text-decoration:none!important;" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Infogram</a></div>
I designed this Data Viz from the perspective of a USA Today data journalist. The newspaper offers streamlined infographics and data visualizations that are easily and quickly digestible without compromising quality and brand integrity. I experimented with multiple chart designs before ultimately landing on a grouped column and added in an infographic. I think at a quick glance, the reader would be able to tell from the chart that each of these populations has increased over the past year, and from the graphic they'd see that the increases have been fairly drastic. My intention was to have the viewer originally look at the chart to recognize the increase, but then draw their eye to the percentages and ideally shock them with how much changed over a one year period.

I think I may have used too many words in this visualization, but I was afraid the chart alone with percentages would have been too busy, and the infographic isn't as meaningful without the chart providing context. I went back and forth with color choices here. For the infographic, the use of yellow and red was intentional to serve as different level warnings and to ultimately shock the reader with the total increase. Even if they don't look at anything else, I hope they'd see the title of my chart, the drastic increase in family units being detained, and the red total increase infographic. I toyed with having the chart itself be shades of grey, but decided it looked less important than the infographic that way. The variants of the color blue are intended to show increase within the same variable.

